# Illuminatron: An interactive platform for visualizing, sonifying and transforming our inner worlds

A tool for individuals & clinicians to improve mental health & wellbeing using psychological profiles with realtime audio & visual feedback from biosensors to manage psychological challenges and better understand their lives

## Project Details
Visualization has facilitated the intuitive grasp of complex systems such as weather and stock markets. However, the power of visualization in a mental health context has yet to be explored extensively in clinical settings. A means of depicting and playing with representations of our inner worlds could facilitate self-understanding and emotional regulation. This could potentially serve as a therapeutic intervention in a clinical context. 
Illuminatron is a 3D workspace that introduces an intuitive visual language to illustrate cognitive processes and personality variables. It thereby facilitates understanding and improved management of peoples’  internal struggles and challenges. Psychological traits and events are depicted using properties of light; for example., reflecting on an idea is depicted as reflection of a beam of light within a sphere. The universal resonance of this "metaphor of light" is evidenced by how in all languages, psychological events are expressed using words that refer also to light (e.g., ray of hope, creative spark, beam with enthusiasm, moment of illumination, brilliant idea,…). Users create visual depictions of their current mental state, and who they aspire to be, and then plot a journey from present self to desired future self. 

The representational system has three components: optics, electromagnetism, and quantum mechanics. Here we give only a sneak peek into rudimentary elements of the optical component. The mind or ego is portrayed as multilayered spherical shells. This structure contains a person's creative life force, chi, or Inner Light (IL), which is portrayed as a ‘background noise’ of flickering light with a unique spectrum. Conscious thoughts are depicted as beams of light within the sphere. The importance, content, and clarity of a thought are represented by its intensity, frequency, and dispersion, respectively. Bending the truth is depicted as refraction (bending) of light. Other spheres can be created to represent other people in your life, and how you interact with them. Individual differences are depicted visually with properties such as opacity/transparency of shell for trait personality openness, and degree of life force is depicted by intensity of inner light. 


Further details about the project and the representational system can be found [here](https://gabora-psych.ok.ubc.ca/IN.html) along with a short [intro video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7-WLlZg9keM) of the preliminary work. The website and the video both are being updated and we are working on moving them to their own domain. 

